**Abstract:** To support the decision-making process of new investors, this paper aims to implement Machine Learning algorithms to generate investment indications, considering the in the case of Vietnamese non-financial companies. The dataset used was provided by WiGroup and Refinancing Rate in Vietnam was collected on the FocusEconomics. The results of the different algorithms were compared to each other using the following metrics: accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score. The Random Forest was the algorithm that obtained the best classification metrics and an accuracy of 72%.
**Keywords:** financial investment; machine learning.

# 1. INTRODUCTION
- The financial investment business has been growing in recent years with new people interested in the subject, mainly by individuals. According to Vietnam Securities Depository (VSD), the number of domestic investor accounts increased by an additional 39,430 accounts in December 2023. In terms of structure, the increase in the number of securities accounts in the last month of the year was mainly driven by individual investors with 39,240 accounts. Meanwhile, the number of accounts held by institutional investors only increased by 190 accounts. Within this context, it can be noticed that new investors need some help to start their activities in the investment business. 
- This project will use Machine Learning algorithms to assist in the decision making process of new investors in the financial investment field, where it was sought to answer the following research questions: how to evaluate the financial situations of companies listed on the Vietnamese Stock Market to assist in the decision-making process of new investors and which Machine Learning algorithms have greater accuracy for this purpose?
- Machine Learning algorithms that serve as financial investment advisors for new investors may be a solution to these questions. Based on these needs, this paper has the following objectives: identify the financial data to make reliable investment recommendations; perform preprocessing; define algorithms that will be used; implement Machine Learning algorithms; conduct validation and performance tests with the used model.
# 2. THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
## 2.1. Financial market investment types
- Financial investments can take various forms, including stocks, savings accounts, commodities, and foreign currencies, among others. Despite the diversity of these applications, a financial investment is fundamentally defined as the allocation of capital into a financial instrument with the primary goal of generating future income (According to CARDOZO, T.).
- According to RT. Paiva et al, financial investments can be categorized into two main types: fixed-income and variable-income investments. Fixed-income investments provide the investor with a predetermined return at the end of the investment period, offering a sense of certainty about the profitability. Common examples include savings accounts and government bonds. On the other hand, variable-income investments do not guarantee a fixed return due to their fluctuating nature, making them riskier but potentially more lucrative. Stocks and mutual funds are prime examples of variable-income investments, where returns are influenced by market conditions.
## 2.2. Fundamental analysis
- According to Gava Gastaldo.N (2019), fundamentalist analysis determines the appropriate stock prices using the earnings and dividends of a given company, expectations of future interest rates, and risk assessment of the company.
- The basic objective of the valuation of a company is to obtain a fair value, which reflects the expected return on future performance projections consistent with the reality of the company evaluated. Since it is based on projections, the valuation is subject to errors and uncertainties, mainly since the analysis of external variables is not controlled by the company in question. Within this context, the result obtained through an evaluation is not an exact estimate of the value of the evaluated company.
- To be able to analyze companies, it is important to use variables and indicators, known as fundamentalist indicators, that impact a company. In this project, the most used indicators were used according to Bered and Rosa, having as a basis the theoretical foundation presented to obtain each indicator. The fundamentalist indicators that were used are: Earnings per Share (EPS), Price/Earnings (P/E), Book Value per Share (BVPS), Return on Equity (ROE) and EBITDA.
## 2.3. Machine Learning models used in project
### 2.3.1. Logistic Regression
- Binary Logistic Regression models the relationship between a set of independent variables and a binary dependent variable. The goal is to find the best model that describes the relationship between the dependent variable and multiple independent variables.
- The Logistic Regression’s dependent variable could be binary or categorical and the independent ones could be a mixture of continuous, categorical, and binary variables.
- The general form of Logistic Regression is as follows:
